# Interface and Navigation

*Get comfortable with the basics to double your workflow efficiency!*

![AutoCAD](/td/TD-02-01-AutoCAD.png)

Learning brand-new software is a big undertaking. Therefore, the first
AutoCAD lesson focuses on interface and navigation to ensure a solid
foundation for expanding your AutoCAD competence.

By the end of this lesson, you will be able to implement suitable
AutoCAD templates, apply basic settings, understand the interface, and
navigate the software. In addition, you will learn how to distinguish
various AutoCAD file types.

## Learning Outcomes

On successful completion of this lesson, the learner will be able to:

-   Implement AutoCAD templates.

-   Understand the AutoCAD interface.

-   Adjust important AutoCAD settings.

-   Navigate the AutoCAD software.

-   Recognise and understand different AutoCAD file types.

## AutoCAD Interface

User Interface (UI) can be described simply as what the user utilises to
interact with the software. You must interact with the interface to
open, edit, create, or save a file.

It is essential to mention that this course leaves several AutoCAD tools
and possibilities unexplored, and you are by no means expected to know
every single functionality and tool. The software is vast, and even
highly experienced AutoCAD users are most likely not familiar with all
tools and UI elements.

Becoming comfortable with the AutoCAD interface will happen naturally
over time as you work with the software. It requires gradual practice.
However, receiving a general overview in the very beginning is immensely
helpful.

![](/td/Icon_Guided_Activity.png)

#### Guided Activity

Watch the demonstration video below to explore the main AutoCAD
interface elements you will use all the time in this course.

Video: TD-02-01-AutoCADInterface.mp4 

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe
src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/807419362?h=611f2d42da&amp;badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479"
frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture"
allowfullscreen
style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;"
title="TD-02-01-AutoCADInterface"></iframe></div>

![](/td/Icon_Activity.png)

#### Activity

Knowledge Check: Multiple Hotspot Image on Interface

## Navigation

Navigating new software is often challenging, and it takes trial and
error over time to become comfortable with it. Talent has little to do
with mastering a new software; the true masters are often the people who
have spent the most time practising. Remember this during your learning
process; it will get easier over time.

![](/td/Icon_Guided_Activity.png)

#### Guided Activity

Watch the demonstration video below to explore the main AutoCAD
interface elements you will use all the time in this course.

Video: TD-02-01-AutoCADInterface.mp4Â 

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe
src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/807419362?h=611f2d42da&amp;badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479"
frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture"
allowfullscreen
style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;"
title="TD-02-01-AutoCADInterface"></iframe></div>

![](/td/Icon_Activity.png)

#### Activity

Knowledge Check: Multiple Hotspot Image on Interface

## Navigation

Navigating new software is often challenging, and it takes trial and
error over time to become comfortable with it. Talent has little to do
with mastering a new software; the true masters are often the people who
have spent the most time practising. Remember this during your learning
process; it will get easier over time.

![](/td/Icon_Guided_Activity.png)

#### Guided Activity

Watch the demonstration video below to explore the main AutoCAD interface elements you will use all the time in this course.

Video: TD-02-01-AutoCADInterface.mp4 

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe
src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/807419362?h=611f2d42da&amp;badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479"
frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture"
allowfullscreen
style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;"
title="TD-02-01-AutoCADInterface"></iframe></div>

![](/td/Icon_Activity.png)

#### Activity

Knowledge Check: Multiple Hotspot Image on Interface

## Navigation

Navigating new software is often challenging, and it takes trial and error over time to become comfortable with it. Talent has little to do with mastering a new software; the true masters are often the people who have spent the most time practising. Remember this during your learning process; it will get easier over time.

![](/td/Icon_Guided_Activity.png)

#### Guided Activity 

The demonstration video below provides a detailed overview of the significant navigation tools and methods. Practising these tools and techniques will increase your workflow and save many work hours.

Video: TD-02-02-AutoCADNavigation.mp4

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe
src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/807419344?h=00e59cf44a&badge=0&autopause=0&player_id=0&app_id=58479/embed"
allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen
frameborder="0"
style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;"></iframe></div>

### 3D Mouse

You can use a 3D mouse to navigate AutoCAD in 2D. To avoid rotating your drawing in three dimensions, ensure the 3D mouse is set to 2D mode. For information regarding using the recommended 3D mouse in AutoCAD, follow the link:

-   [Using a 3Dconnexion Device to Navigate
    Views](https://knowledge.autodesk.com/support/autocad/learn-explore/caas/CloudHelp/cloudhelp/2016/ENU/AutoCAD-Core/files/GUID-D07D9D0F-F42E-45E5-9F39-0442411675AE-htm.html)

Watch the video below to see a demonstration of how the 3D mouse can be used in conjunction with a regular mouse:

-   [3Dconnexion SpaceMouse and CadMouse in an AutoCAD
    drawing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DWlaOlg_HGQ)

Note that a 3D mouse is not mandatory, and the video demonstrations only utilise a standard mouse.

![](/td/Icon_Activity.png)

#### Activity

Open the AutoCAD sample project and practise navigation tools and methods.
Optional: Set up the 3D mouse for AutoCAD if you have one available.
Skip this point if you want to work with a regular mouse only.

### Settings

When a new AutoCAD file is opened, you often need to adjust various settings to optimise the file. 

![](/td/Icon_Guided_Activity.png)

#### Guided Activity

Watch the video demonstration below to learn how to find essential options and settings. 

Video: TD-02-03-AutoCADSettings.mp4

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe
src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/807419332?h=fc8386f472&amp;badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479"
frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture"
allowfullscreen
style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;"
title="TD-02-03-AutoCADSettings"></iframe></div>

![](/td/Icon_Activity.png)

#### Activity

Knowledge Check: Summary on Settings and units

## Template

As mentioned in the previous chapter, you often need to implement and adjust various settings each time you open a new file. This is not particularly practical. To save time, you can create or utilise finished AutoCAD templates. Templates are AutoCAD files with most custom settings saved; by employing them, you can start working without making many adjustments.

While working on this course, utilising the official Noroff AutoCAD templates is mandatory. There are three templates optimised for their purpose.

### Noroff Architectural Template

This template must be applied when working on architectural tasks or projects. Click the link below to download the template.

- Noroff Architectural Template Asset: Acad-Noroff-Architectural.dwt

### Noroff Mechanical Templates

For mechanical tasks and projects, there are two Noroff templates. You will learn more about why we have two templates at a later stage in this course. For now, you are to download both, and until further notice, you are expected to use the template named 'Mechanical Part Template'.

- Noroff Mechanical Part Template Asset: Acad-Noroff-Mechanical-Part.dwt
- Noroff Mechanical Assembly Template Asset: Acad-Noroff-Mechanical-Assembly.dwt

![](/td/Icon_Guided_Activity.png)

#### Guided Activity

You will learn more about templates at a later stage in this course. For now, you only need to know how to download and install the required templates.

Video: TD-02-04-AutoCADTemplates.mp4

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe
src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/807419317?h=eebdf538b5&amp;badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479"
frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture"
allowfullscreen
style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;"
title="TD-02-04-AutoCADTemplates"></iframe></div>

![](/td/Icon_Activity.png)

#### Activity

Download and organise all Noroff templates according to the video above and apply the Mechanical Part Template.

## File Types

AutoCAD uses different file formats for various purposes. Recognising and knowing their purpose is an integral part of using the software.

### DWG (Drawing)

The native file format for saving drawings in AutoCAD and the file format you will use most throughout this course.

### DWT (Drawing Template)

The file format for storing drawing templates. As the previous chapter developed page layouts used to make new documents with the same design and initial settings.

### DWF (Design Web Format)

DWF is a highly compressed version of a CAD file useful for viewing,
printing, and transmitting a CAD drawing or model. The recipient can
view the content of a DWF file by downloading free software from
Autodesk, such as Design Review. This is also the software used
throughout your studies at Technical Design and is something we will
look into in later lessons. To be prepared, you can follow the link
below to download it now.

-   Autodesk Design Review

### DWL/DWL2 (Drawing Lock)

DWL/DWL2 files stores lock information when a drawing is currently open
in AutoCAD. DWL files prevent simultaneous access to a drawing, which
may cause the file to become corrupted.

### BAK (Backup) and SV\$ (Backup)

BAK and SV\$ are backup files created by AutoCAD. They act as a backup
in case the original DWG file gets corrupted. They can be 'converted' to
a DWG file simply by renaming the file extension from '.bak' or '.sv\$'
to '.dwg'. BAK files are manual backups created using the Save command,
while SV\$ are created automatically by the software. Sv\$ files are
stored in an active folder or the Windows temp folder and are
automatically deleted when the software successfully shuts down.

When submitting assignments, DWL/DWL2 and BAK must not be included.

![](/td/Icon_Activity.png)

#### Activity

Knowledge check: Summary on File types

![](/td/Icon_Task.png)

### Daily Task

### DT-01-02

-   Open the Sample project provided in this lesson.

-   Explore the AutoCAD interface and practice navigating.

-   Watch the video ["Exploring technical
    drawings"](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/drafting-foundations/exploring-technical-drawings?autoplay=true&resume=false&u=43268076)
    on Linkedin Learning.

    -   Inquiry: What are the benefits of creating technical drawings on
        a computer rather than drafting by hand? Write down your
        thoughts and suggestions and share them on the forum for a peer
        discussion.

#### H5P 

<iframe src="https://lms.noroff.no/mod/hvp/embed.php?id=96820" width="1298" height="442" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen"></iframe>
